User-defined custom incremental strategies (#4716)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/incremental-models.md

</VersionBlock>

> ### Built-in strategies and their corresponding macros

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Built-in strategies
```

</VersionBlock>

### Custom strategies

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.1">

Custom incremental strategies can be defined beginning in dbt v1.2.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.2">

As an easier alternative to [creating an entirely new materialization](/guides/create-new-materializations), users can define and use their own "custom" user-defined incremental strategies by:

> 1. defining a macro named `get_incremental_STRATEGY_sql`

Reviewer: are we saying the macro should always be named `get_incremental_STRATEGY_sql`?

Reviewer: or is `STRATEGY` a placeholder? if its a placeholder, we should maybe be more clear on that.

Author: Yep, `STRATEGY` is a placeholder!

Any ideas how to make it more clear?

Along the lines of your suggestion about the table, you think adding adding it would make it more clear?

![Screenshot 2024-01-08 at 12 10 43](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/f5bff8cc-1ab8-4391-9748-fb3168817945)

Reviewer: ok gotcha, thank you for clarifying! waht do you think about the following suggestion @dbeatty10 :
------------------------

### Built-in strategies and their corresponding macros
Before diving into custom strategies, it's important to understand the built-in incremental strategies in dbt and their corresponding macros:

| `incremental_strategy` | Corresponding macro                    |
|------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| `append`               | `get_incremental_append_sql`           |
| `delete+insert`        | `get_incremental_delete_insert_sql`    |
| `merge`                | `get_incremental_merge_sql`            |
| `insert_overwrite`     | `get_incremental_insert_overwrite_sql` |

For example, a built-in strategy for the `append` can be defined and used with the following files:

<File name='macros/append.sql'>

```sql
{% macro get_incremental_append_sql(arg_dict) %}

  {% do return(some_custom_macro_with_sql(arg_dict["target_relation"], arg_dict["temp_relation"], arg_dict["unique_key"], arg_dict["dest_columns"], arg_dict["incremental_predicates"])) %}

{% endmacro %}

{% macro some_custom_macro_with_sql(target_relation, temp_relation, unique_key, dest_columns, incremental_predicates) %}

    {%- set dest_cols_csv = get_quoted_csv(dest_columns | map(attribute="name")) -%}

    insert into {{ target_relation }} ({{ dest_cols_csv }})
    (
        select {{ dest_cols_csv }}
        from {{ temp_relation }}
    )

{% endmacro %}
```
Define a model models/my_model.sql:

```sql
{{ config(
    materialized="incremental",
    incremental_strategy="append",
) }}

select * from {{ ref("some_model") }}
```

### Custom strategies
<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.1">

Custom incremental strategies can be defined beginning in dbt v1.2.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.2">

As an easier alternative to [creating an entirely new materialization](/guides/create-new-materializations), 
users can define and use their own "custom" user-defined incremental strategies by:

1. defining a macro named `get_incremental_STRATEGY_sql`. Note that `STRATEGY` is a placeholder and you should replace it with the name of your custom incremental strategy.
2. configuring `incremental_strategy: STRATEGY` within an incremental model

dbt won't validate user-defined strategies, it will just look for the macro by that name, and raise an error if it can't find one.

For example,.....

Reviewer: ok @dbeatty10 proposing the above adn before i make the changes or sugg - please let me know if that makes sense to you 🙏

Author: This looks good 🚀

Reviewer: ok cool, will make that change!

2. configuring `incremental_strategy: STRATEGY` within an incremental model

For example, a user-defined strategy named `insert_only` can be defined and used with the following files:

<File name='macros/my_custom_strategies.sql'>

```sql
{% macro get_incremental_insert_only_sql(arg_dict) %}

  {% do return(some_custom_macro_with_sql(arg_dict["target_relation"], arg_dict["temp_relation"], arg_dict["unique_key"], arg_dict["dest_columns"], arg_dict["incremental_predicates"])) %}

{% endmacro %}

{% macro some_custom_macro_with_sql(target_relation, temp_relation, unique_key, dest_columns, incremental_predicates) %}

    {%- set dest_cols_csv = get_quoted_csv(dest_columns | map(attribute="name")) -%}

    insert into {{ target_relation }} ({{ dest_cols_csv }})
    (
        select {{ dest_cols_csv }}
        from {{ temp_relation }}
    )

{% endmacro %}
```

</File>

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{ config(
    materialized="incremental",
    incremental_strategy="insert_only",
    ...
) }}

...
```

</File>

### Custom strategies from a package

> To use the `merge_null_safe` custom incremental strategy from the `example` package, first [install the package](/docs/build/packages#how-do-i-add-a-package-to-my-project), then add this macro to your project:

Reviewer: sugg breaking this down into bullets
```suggestion
To use the `merge_null_safe` custom incremental strategy from the `example` package:
- [Install the package](/docs/build/packages#how-do-i-add-a-package-to-my-project)
- Then add the following macro to your project:
```
